[THEME MUSIC]
>> Welcome to a special
series of "Missing Links,"
where your questions
get answered.
I'm your host, Tiffany
Bush, and I'm also
the head of the member
support team here at Gaia.
And with me today is the star
of the show, Gregg Braden.
We're here to answer your
questions from the first season
of "Missing Links."
Welcome, Gregg.
>> Tiffany, I am so excited
to be here today and really
thrilled to talk
about this topic.
Thank you for having
me, and I look forward
to these questions.
>> Thank you.
We're excited to have you too.
I get so many great questions
from our members, and just
the fact that you're here
is just an honor for me
to talk to you, but also for our
members that really are looking
for answers, so thank you.
>> Can I share a little
secret with our members?
Where we're seeing right now is
the very room, the very studio,
and the very place where
all of "Missing Links"
was filmed originally.
So this is like
deja vu coming back,
and it's the rest
of the program.
So it feels really good
to be here with you.
Thank you.
>> Love it.
Love it.
So it's just like they're
here with us today.
>> Yeah.
>> Let's go ahead and get
started with Leanne's question.
She wants to know,
"Can you clarify
the connection between
our hearts' intelligence
and our subconsciousness?
Are they the same
intelligence, or is the heart
our higher consciousness,
which acts as a gateway
to our subconsciousness?"
[CHUCKLING]
I think it's important
to understand
if our blocking
subconscious beliefs can
affect our hearts' intelligence
and the messages it gives us.
>> That's a really
good-- actually,
three or four questions
that are in there.
So I'm going to--
I want to address this
quickly at a high level,
but I want it to be
complete, and I want
to be complete in saying this.
1991-- as I talked about in
"Missing Links," the discovery
of 40,000 specialized
cells in the human heart
changed the way we think
about the heart forever.
These are sensory neurites.
They're essentially
brain-like cells,
but they're not in the brain.
They're in the heart.
They think, remember, and learn
independently of the brain
in our head.
And one of the ways that
that independence occurs
is our heart doesn't work
through the filters of the ego,
the self-doubt, the criticism
that we hear from the time
that we're young, sometimes
from the people that
are closest to us.
So when we communicate
directly with our hearts,
the information
usually comes quickly.
It's very concise.
It's very direct.
There's no preamble or
introduction to the answer,
And it doesn't need to
have that because it's not
going through those filters.
Our brain, on the other hand--
when we ask ourselves
a question, our brain--
we can go through the loop, the
endless loop of all the doubt,
and the criticisms,
and the questions,
and the circular logic,
and the reasoning.
That is a distinction between
the heart and the brain.
However, the brain
can think in logic.
The heart doesn't think
in logic in the same way.
So this is how they
function independently.
What we are talking
about in "Missing Links"
is these two separate
organs may be harmonized
into a single,
potent neural network
so that we can tap
the benefit of both.
And when we do that,
we harmonize the heart
and the brain
through the process
that I shared in
"Missing Links" where
we create a 0.1 hertz
signal between the heart
and the brain.
We feel the feelings
to create that signal.
That is the hot line
to the subconscious.
It is the harmonization
of the heart and the brain
that gives us direct access
into the subconscious.
So when we are working
with our heart,
we're working with heart wisdom.
And the beauty of
that heart wisdom
is that we can ask anything
that we choose to ask.
And what I'm hearing
in this question
is, how do we know
what we're hearing?
And this is-- people ask me
this all the time, Tiffany.
They'll come up to me and
they'll say, I had this dream,
and it is so vivid, and the
very detail-- and they'll
give me all the details
about this dream.
But then they look at me and
they say, what does that mean?
And I have to say
them, I have no idea
because it's your dream.
If you're empowered
to have the dream
or you receive a message
from the universe
and you're not sure
what that means,
you're empowered
to use the system
to go back and query
this intelligence.
What does this mean in my life?
What am I being
shown in this dream?
Where's this
intelligence coming from?
Where does this message--
where's this
message originating?
Rather than trying
to guess-- and
this heart-brain
communication empowers
us to be able to do that.
So we're talking heart-brain--
the connection to
the subconscious
without going through the
hypnosis or relaxation
or anything like that.
>> I think it's interesting
that you even mention the idea
of talking to the heart and
having a conversation with it.
Let's move on to Lisa's
question about manifestation.
So I'm going to
read the whole thing
because it's really interesting,
the way she words it.
"You related the story of a
shaman manifesting an outcome--
in this case, rain--
through the mind
framework of it already
having occurred and
internalizing it
correspondingly with the
feeling of wet feet, et cetera.
How does this paradigm compare
with that of intention?
For example, if I
set my intention
towards manifesting a
particular reality or goal,
is that self-defeating
in the sense
that I am desiring an outcome
rather than treating it
as already realized?
Does intention still play
a role in manifesting?"
>> That's a great
question, and once again,
and not surprisingly, there are
multiple questions within that
question.
I'll be as concise as I can.
Part of this-- we're
dealing with language.
The word "intention"
means different things
to different people.
A lot of the answers
is in how intention
is defined by the person
asking the question,
and there's a difference.
There's a distinction.
When we intend something,
more often than not,
there is no outcome.
It's open-ended.
So we can intend that
we're going to be abundant.
We can intend that our
perfect mate is manifesting
for us in our lives.
And to the universe--
the universe is very literal.
Nature interprets
that very literally.
And if you say,
I intend for this
to happen, the universe will
say, OK, you can intend,
and intend, and
intend, and intend.
But there's no outcome.
There's no way for that
intent to become manifest
on the one hand.
And on the other hand,
when we come from the sense
that whatever it is that we're
hoping to have in our world
is already in place, when
we begin with the outcome--
this is so powerful,
and it's so subtle.
This is a form of
prayer that was
lost in the fourth century
when it was edited out
of the modern Christian
text by the Church
in the fourth century.
And we see this form of
prayer in the edited books,
such as the Gospel
of Thomas, where
we're told to begin
with the outcome
as if it's already happened.
Begin with the healing.
Claim the healing.
Give thanks for
what's already there.
And people say, well,
am I fooling myself
if I do that, if I'm
giving thanks for something
I don't see?
And the answer is no, and
here's the reason why.
We are quantum beings as well
as linear, mechanistic beings.
We live in both worlds.
On the quantum level, all
possibilities already exist.
A perfect mate already exists.
Perfect abundance
already exists.
Perfect healing already exists.
What we do-- and
this is-- again,
I'm probably not
even doing it justice
in this brief period of time.
When we through our
heart-brain harmony--
so think about this, the
electrical and magnetic fields
of the heart and the brain--
the heart is 5,000 times
more powerful magnetically
than the brain, and it's at
least 100 times more powerful
electrically than the brain.
When you combine these
together, what we're doing--
you can think of it this way.
We are literally, through
heart-brain harmony--
we are reaching into the quantum
soup of all possibilities.
And the possibility that is
nebulous and moving around-- we
are collapsing it.
We're claiming it.
We're pulling it out of
that soup to make it real.
So the example that I
gave of my native friend
creating rain in the high
desert of northern Mexico--
the rain existed in the
quantum possibility.
He claimed it
through his senses.
He felt the feeling as if
he were standing in the mud.
He smelled the
smells of the rain
coming off of the walls
of his pueblo village
as well as feeling the
feeling of gratitude
for the rain that's
already happening.
And in that way,
these are the words
that we use for the inner
technology, the quantum
technology, to collapse
the waves of possibilities
into the particle world of
something actually happening.
So the answer is yes.
[CHUCKLING]
No, but that is the
distinction between intention.
And again, this is
part of the problem
with the way many people are
taught to do affirmations.
Affirmations are powerful.
They're good.
And an affirmation has to be
given a way to resolve itself.
So the resolution
comes in the outcome.
So if you say,
I'm ready, I'm now
ready to manifest
my perfect partner.
The universe will
say, OK, you're ready,
and you're ready now, and
you're ready tomorrow,
and you're ready-- you can be
ready for a bajillion years
because there's no outcome.
Does that make sense
if I say it that way?
>> Yes, absolutely.
>> So the difference in quantum,
rather than saying you're open
to something, you're claiming
as if it has already occurred.
So in the words of
the Master Jesus--
not from a religious
perspective,
but as a masterful teacher--
what he told his students was
be surrounded by your desire.
Be surrounded by your joy
so that it can be fulfilled.
The only way to be is for
it to have already happened,
to feel the feelings as
if it's already there.
And this is-- so we're talking
about the power of human
emotion to bring an internal
technology of quantum
manifestation into reality
in our physical world,
and we're trying to do it
in a couple of minutes--
>> That's interesting.
>> --on this Q&A.
>> It makes me think.
So the editing out of the--
almost the key--
there's these key words,
so I wonder if it's a bit of
telephone happening when it
gets reinterpreted
or if it's more--
they intentionally
know that if you
ask in knowing that it will be.
It's a hard thing to understand.
>> As a scientist, I can
only speculate on that.
I'll say that the
impact of removing this
from our most cherished and
sacred spiritual text of 2/3
of the religious world, the
2 billion-plus Christians
and Judeo-Christian
traditions, is--
the net effect is
that people were left
feeling powerless and
helpless in a world
where they actually have
the ability not to control
and not to manipulate,
but to influence and tip
the scales of balance
in their favor.
And for me, that makes all
the difference in the world.
>> Absolutely.
And Daniela C. wants to know
a little bit more about this.
So this is another
long question,
and it's really well-written,
so I will read it out.
She says, "If a
group of people have
the intention and the power to
emanate a peaceful feeling that
may condition those within
their radius in a positive way,
like decreasing episodes of
crime and violence for example,
presumably, there's
also the possibility
to do the same with
negative intentions
in order to achieve
the exact opposite.
If this is a potential
reality, it is also presumable
that powerful stakeholders
may have used these tactics
to obtain the public's
support for acts of war,
economic maneuvers, et cetera.
Without going into too
much conspiracy theory,
how can we recognize
those feelings
which are not our own?"
>> Well, that's a different
question, so let me do this.
I'm going to back off.
Rather than being
that specific, let
me say it in general because
I get this question a lot.
If we can feel the feeling
and create good things,
can other people feel the
feelings and create bad things?
That's the essence.
Would you agree?
Is that the essence
of the question?
>> Yeah, I agree.
>> Nature has built
in a fail safe,
which is so awesome when
you think about this.
And here's the way it works.
Whatever it is that we claim,
whatever it is that we create,
we will experience in our
own bodies, in our own cells,
in our own existence
before it ever
becomes manifest in
the world around us.
So if we are beings of
cooperation, peace, love,
and healing, what a
beautiful thing for us
not only to choose
that for the world,
but for us to claim it
for ourselves as well.
If we are, in my estimation,
abusing this power
to create harmful
things for other people,
we will experience that
harm, and it will destroy us
before it will ever have the
impact that many people are
concerned about in
the world around us--
nature's fail safe.
Does that make sense?
>> It does.
>> Have I answered that?
>> It's almost like--
>> I want to be brief.
I want to be concise.
>> No, it is, and basically,
we create our own feelings,
so we can tell if
they're our own or not.
>> Well, if the question
is, is this feeling my own,
this is the power of harmonizing
the heart and the brain.
Any experience-- this is a
beautiful question of where
we've been taught to feel
disempowered when in fact,
we are empowered to go
in and ask, specifically,
these kinds of--
when there's no one else
to ask, when there's
no book to ask and everybody--
I have friends who
have health issues,
and every one of their
friends is giving them
advice that's
different, and they're
pulled in a million directions.
Drink this.
Smoke this.
Wear one of these crystals.
Eat this-- they're all
good for some things,
but how do you know
what's right for you?
Nobody can tell you, and this
is one of those times where
nobody can tell you.
This is where you harmonize
the heart and the brain.
You go into your heart
wisdom and you ask what's
right for you in this moment.
Part of my heritage is
Cherokee, Southeastern Cherokee,
and there's a word for
what we're talking about.
It's called [CHEROKEE].
[CHEROKEE] means the
single eye of the heart--
the eye that knows what's
right for you in this moment--
not for your neighbor, not for
your parents or your sibling,
only for you in this moment.
And this question is
a perfect example.
If you want to know what
it is that you're hearing,
go into your heart and ask, and
you're empowered to do that.
>> Yes, thank you.
Let's talk about the
amazing doctors in China
that healed the tumor.
So Javier U. wants
to know, have you
learned to heal yourself
with the power of belief,
as seen with the tumor with all
the doctors surrounding the one
lady?
>> My answer is it
goes beyond belief.
It is claiming.
There is the belief
that it's possible,
and then there's the
claiming it in our lives.
What I showed in the film--
these were Qigong masters.
And I studied with the
man that made the film,
so I've experienced personally,
and I have applied it
in my own life, and I've
talked about it in some
of my books and programs.
It is quantum healing, and we
can answer this now because
of the previous questions.
What they are doing in
that film is an example
of what we spoke about three
questions ago, of reaching
into the quantum field
of all possibilities,
claiming the one that
has already happened.
And with the power of
those three practitioners,
who are attuned to
the human energy field
and to what we would call the
pranic energy field, of making
that possibility a reality--
in the "Missing Link"
series, I showed the film,
where we could see
with an ultrasound--
the sonogram-- inside
the body of a living
woman whose condition changed
in 2 minutes and 40 seconds.
What you were seeing at
2 minutes and 40 seconds
is how quickly that
quantum possibility
can replace an
existing possibility
because it's all quantum.
Have I applied it
in my own life?
I'll just be very candid.
The answer is yes.
In the year 2000, at a
routine medical exam,
I was told I had
something inside my body
that shouldn't be there,
in my bladder, after I'd
been seeing this film for years
in front of live audiences,
and I needed surgery.
And I said, give me two weeks.
And I applied everything
that I've ever learned,
but still, I had that little
doubt that we often have.
And I said, how do
I know if it's real?
I went to the Mayo Clinic
in Jacksonville, Florida,
and actually underwent
what we thought
was going to be a procedure.
And I was anesthetized,
and when I woke up,
the doctor was saying
to me, why are you here?
And I said, well,
what do you mean?
And he said, there's
nothing to remove.
There's no sign that it was.
There's no redness.
There's no scarring.
And he was trying
to figure out why
his team was working
on somebody that
didn't need to be worked on.
I was anesthetized,
so I was trying
to explain to him about
quantum healing and medicine--
this hospital in Beijing,
China, as he turned to walk out
the door because there's
nothing in his belief system
where that would fit.
So the answer is I have applied
it in my own life, and I do--
rather than trying to
apply it, I try to live it.
I do my very best.
And I'm a student.
I'm learning.
I'll learn 'til my
last day on Earth.
But I think the best
we can do is not
to discount the wisdom of
those who have come before us,
but to embrace it
where it makes sense.
Marry it with the best
science of the modern world
to be the best people
that we can be.
>> Love it.
Thank you.
That's awesome.
And I love that you said
that you're always learning.
I heard a quote the other
day that teachers always
have teachers.
It doesn't stop there.
There's always another level.
So it's beautiful.
DJ Walker wants to know a little
bit more about 3-D reality.
So she or he says, I'm
trying to maintain a lift-off
from the 3-D reality.
I've stopped watching TV.
So the question is,
what vision can I
maintain in my mind
of a future dimension?
>> If I'm understanding
what's asked,
what vision DJ can maintain
is the vision that brings joy
to his or her heart and
that makes their soul sing,
and this is the beauty.
We have personal vision.
We have collective vision.
I couldn't possibly tell this
individual what vision to hold.
And I'm not sure--
when they talk
about a dimensional
reality, I'm not sure
exactly where the
question fits into that.
So I may not be doing
justice to this question.
We live in a three-dimensional
world, and we're here.
That's our reality.
We also live in other
dimensions simultaneously.
When we go to sleep,
in our dream states,
we're in other
dimensions as well,
and they're all very real.
There are indigenous
tribes, some
that are in Africa, that spend
more time in the dream state
than they do in the waking.
They wake up every once in a
while to go to the bathroom,
get a bite to eat.
Their tribal business,
their elders,
their marriages-- they're all
arranged in the dream state.
If you and I were to go in
their tribe, we would look
and say, oh, they're
all sleeping.
It's a lucid dream.
They've learned to stay
awake in their dreams
in that altered state, and
they live much of their lives
in another dimensional reality.
We tune ours out, and we tend to
isolate one reality or another.
So it's an interesting question.
I'm not sure I've honored
it and done justice,
but that's what I'm
understanding right now.
>> I'm wondering if
it's more about--
what will you see in
this other dimension?
What should you be focusing
on if you know that--
>> Well, what the
evidence-- as a scientist--
I'm a trained scientist.
What the evidence suggests
in the other dimensions is
we won't be seeing
much of anything
because we won't use our eyes
the way we use our eyes now.
We use our eyes to
interpret signals of light
because we've separated
ourselves from our world.
In other dimensions,
we're not that separate.
So we become the
essence of that world.
We're not seeing it as separate.
>> Let's talk about
Kathryn question.
And I'm happy that she asked
this question because I just
think as Gaia and
a network, people
feel sometimes disconnected
when the people around them--
the people you grow up
with and go to school with,
go to church with,
have different opinions
about the heart-mind connection.
So let's talk
about her question.
She says, waking up can be
a lonely process for many.
Would you mind giving us your
top three most important things
to do to move forward once
you have come into your truth?
It seems to be really easy
to get stalled by fear,
even when you are aware that
fear is just an illusion.
>> I could give
those very quickly.
Live your truth, believe in your
truth, and trust your truth.
And what that means
to me, that she's
asking for the top
three things-- and those
are the top three.
Honest to God, they
just came to me right
as she was saying that,
and I think that's the key.
What I've found is this.
Everyone is waking
up because we're told
that this world is a dream.
So we're waking up from
a dream in some sense.
But just as we all
wake up differently
in the morning from
our bed, we all
wake up at different
times in different ways.
And we can't possibly judge
when or how or to what degree
another person is
awake because of--
choices they make in
one facet of their lives
may look to us like an
unconscious choice when
in another part of
their lives, they
may be so totally tuned in.
So my experience
is the best that we
can hope to do is live
our truths for ourselves.
And this is where
the workshop of life
begins, because it's easy to
live your truth when you're
in a New Age workshop
or you're isolated
in a monastery on a mountaintop
halfway around the world.
Where the challenge comes--
go to a public school.
Go to your place of work,
your employment, your friends,
your family, and
live what you know
to be true in the
presence of others,
regardless of their
beliefs or not.
But here's the key--
to live it in a way that's
kind, to be kind to others--
not critical, not judgmental
because someone else may not
see or think the same way.
This is where
compassion comes in.
But compassion is the
end of a sequence.
First, we must have sympathy.
Then we must have empathy
to gain compassion.
You cannot have compassion
without the empathy
and the sympathy, and
we've got to be able--
you have to sympathize with
someone else who's having
a difficult time.
That's recognizing
the suffering.
Empathizing is feeling
that suffering with us--
with them.
Compassion is the
ability to witness
the suffering of another
without judging it
and without getting
lost in the suffering.
So this is where those people,
the very situation that she's
describing, is our greatest
workshop, because it's
where we learn to be
and live our own truth
in the presence of a
world that doesn't always
support that truth.
You know, a place where
I get this a lot--
I hired-- well, it
was a consultant--
to come into some
of our workshops,
because I wanted to see
who my audience was.
And they did focus groups
and things like that,
and they compiled a beautifully
bound volume of pie charts
and bar charts of age
groups and demographics.
One of the things they found,
we have a lot of young people
that come with their
parents, and sometimes
three generations, with their
parents and their grandparents,
to our events.
And the young people--
here's what they say.
They say, Gregg-- or Mr. Braden.
I said, please call me Gregg.
I don't know when I
became a Mr. I'm not sure
when that happened.
[CHUCKLING]
They say, it's easy to
live the way that you're
talking about in this
room with these people
because we all believe
the same thing.
But when I go to my school,
nobody thinks this way.
And this is where a young
person will be tested,
and this is where,
in my opinion,
the parents can give them the
guidance and the strength.
If they know that what I
call a spiritual rock--
if they know that their
spiritual rock is who they are
in this world and what
their life is all about
because they've been through
the guidance of their parents--
have given them those values--
then when they go
into a situation
where that's not supported,
it's not a problem for them.
It's when they are
vulnerable, when they're lost,
when they don't have that
identity and they go to school
and they want to be
with the in crowd,
with their doing the drugs
or the cyber-bullying
or whatever it is.
They don't know who they are.
That's where they become more
susceptible to those things.
So the things that we're talking
about on a very spiritual level
have a very practical
application in our lives.
When we know who we are,
it's much easier for us
to live our truth.
>> Well, thank you.
It's obvious that you
were drawn to the sciences
for some reason, so Cherie wants
to know, how and when did it
occur to you personally that
all these aspects of history,
spirituality, and science
were all connected?
>> Well, that's a big question.
I've answered this in some of
the social media interviews
that we've had, and it's
no secret to our audience.
I come from a very
dysfunctional,
alcoholic family.
Father was alcoholic.
He left our family
when I was 10.
Science and music were the
refuge for me, in that order.
I became a scientist
at the age of five--
didn't have the
degree, obviously.
So science has always
been a very powerful--
played a very powerful role in
my life, and I've been drawn--
I knew from the time I was
five years old that I would
be a geologist, and I was.
I also thought I
might be a rock star,
and I'm still thinking
about that one.
But the role of science--
the reason I think
it's important
is because science
is a language.
It's only one language.
It's a way of
interpreting our world.
And for us to make
the kind of changes
that we all hope
for in the world,
to have the cooperation
and the peace,
the sharing, and the equitable
kind of world we have,
we've got to think differently
than we ever have before.
And people, I think, are
willing to do that if they
are given a reason.
Science is a neutral language.
It's not charged with
religious connotations
or with New Age connotations.
So science is a way of honoring
my audience through what
I've come to understand.
I began at five years old.
I formalized it with
my degree later on.
But I also want to
be really clear.
Science doesn't have
all the answers.
Science is new.
It's only 300 years old.
Spirituality is over
5,000 years old.
We've had spiritual
understandings.
So I think we owe it to
ourselves to draw upon every
iota of information that's
available to us today--
because we're in uncharted
territory in our world--
to draw upon everything to be
honest, truthful, and factual.
With the material that's
real, hang onto it.
With the stuff that's
not real, let it go.
That comes to healing.
That comes to peace.
That comes to free energy.
It comes to medicine,
all of those things.
And allow the science
and the spirituality
to come together to marry
the two into a wisdom that's
greater than science
could ever be alone
or that spirituality
could be on its own
to give us the evolutionary
edge to thrive--
to thrive, not just survive--
thrive in the new world that's
at our doorstep right now.
>> I'm just so thankful for
science to help back these
spiritual facts, really.
>> Well, science can
help us know what's real
and what's not.
And if it's not real,
then stop doing it.
>> So thank you so much for
being here again, Gregg.
It's so great to have you.
Thanks for answering the
viewers' questions and spending
time with me today.
>> Tiffany, you're awesome.
You're a very easy person to
work with on these questions,
and I'm excited to honor our
audience through answering
some of these.
Thanks for making that possible.
>> Of course.
That's all we have for today.
I'm your host, Tiffany Bush.
In the next episode,
we'll answer
your insightful questions
on the history of humanity.
[THEME MUSIC]